Upon entering the website’s URL the user is presented with a login page. The login page features a brief description of the current situation. For instance, any course issues or service downtime would be displayed here. The users also have the ability to view courses in any given semester without needing to log in. The login system security is handled by hashing the entered username and password using the Blowfish algorithm and sent to the database for server side validation. 
Once logged in, the users are sent to the default page with various options presented to them.  Additionally, there is also a section containing relevant news that will updated on a regular interval. This section is currently created by using JSON and the New York Times API (may be modified later on). 
The first selectable option is the student profile. This page shows a record of the student. It indicates which courses have been completed and the GPA. Also, this page is used to determine which prerequisites and co-requisites have been completed before a student can register for a class that has those specific prerequisites and co-requisites.
The second selectable option leads to the registration page. Here, students can search for courses in a selected semester in order to generate schedules. There is also an option to auto-generate schedules that is currently in development. Students can apply time preferences to generate their ideal schedule.  Up to five different schedules can be displayed on the same page using client side JavaScript and jQuery to dynamically generate the schedules as the user selects or edits information. The students can then select which schedule they would prefer to have by comparing all of them. Students can add courses to the courses tab. However, in the event that they lack the necessary prerequisites or co-requisites, they will not be able to add the course onto the registered tab. This validation is handled by dynamically checking the students registered courses within the database. The courses shown on the right-hand side represent what the students are involved with. If the course name is within a green rectangle, then the student will be currently registered for that class. If the course name is within a yellow rectangle, then the student will be on a waiting list for that class. Finally, if the course name is within a red rectangle, then it indicates that the student has removed that class from the current semester.
At any time, users can click on the mytinerary logo on the top left corner to be redirected to the home page. At the home page students can also view available courses as well as their current schedule. Mytinerary is cross-platform compatible in addition to featuring a responsive layout and automatic scaling. This is achieved using HTML5 and Bootstrap as the front-end framework. Any APIs to be used will also avoid being platform specific to ensure usability across all devices.
